events: implement captureRejections for async handlers (#27867)
nodejs/node: doc/api/events.md

// Prints: whoops! there was an error
```

## AutoCatch of Promise rejection

Using async functions in event handlers is problematic, because it would
lead to `'unhandledRejection'` in case of an exception

```js
const ee = new EventEmitter();
ee.on('something', async (value) => {
  throw new Error('kaboom');
});
```

The `autoCatch` option in the `EventEmitter` constructor or the global

> setting change this behavior, installing a `.catch()` handler on the

Reviewer: i'm not exactly sure what to say here, but `catch()` isn't being called so there might need to be a change.

`Promise`. This `catch` handler routes the exception to the

> [`'rejection'`][rejection] event if there is a listener, or to

Reviewer 2: This makes the `'rejection'` event special no? Someone might use this event for something else. Perhaps it's better to use a symbol?

// Prints: whoops! there was an error
```

> ## AutoCatch of Promise rejection

Reviewer 3: I would prefer an explicit name like `captureRejections` or something that indicates that rejections are converted to errors.

> Using async functions in event handlers is problematic, because it would

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Using `async` functions with event handlers is problematic, because it would
```

> lead to `'unhandledRejection'` in case of an exception

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
lead to an unhandled rejection in case of a thrown exception:
```

It's an actual unhandled rejection and not just the event:

```js
const ee = new EventEmitter();
ee.on('something', async (value) => {
  throw new Error('kaboom');
});
```

> The `autoCatch` option in the `EventEmitter` constructor or the global

Reviewer 3: Please add a test on how this works in subclasses of `EventEmitter`? This is scary for libraries to do otherwise I think.

> setting change this behavior, installing a `.catch()` handler on the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
setting change this behavior, installing an error handler on the
```

`Promise`. This `catch` handler routes the exception to the

> [`Symbol.for('nodejs.rejection')`][rejection] event if there is a listener, or to

Reviewer 3: Honestly this would require someone to return a promise from an event emitter method and add a catch method to it later which means it's not an async function.

I am entirely fine with not supporting this case or emitting an event here just because the added complexity likely isn't worth it.

[`'error'`][error] if there is none.

```js
const ee1 = new EventEmitter({ autoCatch: true });
ee1.on('something', async (value) => {
  throw new Error('kaboom');
});

> ee1.on('error', console.log);

Reviewer 3: Please mention somewhere that this doesn't happen synchronously?

const ee2 = new EventEmitter({ autoCatch: true });
ee2.on('something', async (value) => {
  throw new Error('kaboom');
});

> ee2.on(Symbol.for('nodejs.rejection'), console.log);

Reviewer 3: I think that if we keep this symbol it's likely better to keep it on events rather than the global symbol registry like symbol.promisify.custom unless there is a specific need for it to behave well across realms.

Reviewer 4: Keeping it on the global symbol registry allows it to be used browser side as well, which is going to be important for things like `readable-stream` and the various browser ports of EventEmitter. That said, exposing the symbol as a convenience property makes sense... e.g. 

```js
const { EventEmitter, rejection } = require('events')

ee2.on(rejection, console.log)

// would be equivalent to

ee2.on(Symbol.for('nodejs.rejection'), console.log)

// either would work
```

Author: I'm a bit unsure about exporting it as a symbol, mainly because we have a global switch at `events.captureRejections`, and the `Symbol` at `events.rejection`. I think this can get confusing very quickly.

  throw new Error('kaboom');
});
```

The `captureRejections` option in the `EventEmitter` constructor or the global
setting change this behavior, installing a `.then(undefined, handler)`
handler on the `Promise`. This handler routes the exception to the
[`Symbol.for('nodejs.rejection')`][rejection] event if there is a listener,
or to [`'error'`][error] handler if there is none.

```js
const ee1 = new EventEmitter({ captureRejections: true });
ee1.on('something', async (value) => {
  throw new Error('kaboom');
});

ee1.on('error', console.log);

const ee2 = new EventEmitter({ captureRejections: true });
ee2.on('something', async (value) => {
  throw new Error('kaboom');
});

ee2.on(Symbol.for('nodejs.rejection'), console.log);
```

Setting `EventEmitter.captureRejections = true` will change the default for all
new instances of `EventEmitter`.

```js
EventEmitter.captureRejections = true;
const ee1 = new EventEmitter();
ee1.on('something', async (value) => {
  throw new Error('kaboom');
});

ee1.on('error', console.log);
```

The `Symbol.for('nodejs.rejection')` and `'error'` events that are
generated by the `captureRejections` behavior **do not have a catch handler**

> to avoid infinite error loops.

Reviewer 4: For these events, I *would* add a catch handler if `captureRejections` is enabled and would have those forward up to `process`. For `process`, if someone decided to do `process.on('error', async (err) => {})`, only then should it be handled as an unhandled rejection. 

Also, I would make it so that `process` is created with the `captureRejections` flag enabled by default

## Class: EventEmitter
<!-- YAML
added: v0.1.26
changes:
  - version: REPLACEME

>     pr-url: FIXME

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    pr-url: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/27867
```

// Prints: whoops! there was an error
```

> ## Capture rejections of Promises

Reviewer 3: Why is Capture and Promises uppercase but Rejections lower case?
```suggestion
## Capture Rejections of Promises
```

> Stability: 1 - captureRejections is experimental.

> Using `async` functions with event handlers is problematic, because it would

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Using `async` functions with event handlers is problematic, because it can
```

const ee = new EventEmitter();
ee.on('something', async (value) => {
  throw new Error('kaboom');
});
```

The `captureRejections` option in the `EventEmitter` constructor or the global
setting change this behavior, installing a `.then(undefined, handler)`
handler on the `Promise`. This handler routes the exception
asynchronously to the [`Symbol.for('nodejs.rejection')`][rejection] method
if there is one, or to [`'error'`][error] event handler if there is none.

```js
const ee1 = new EventEmitter({ captureRejections: true });
ee1.on('something', async (value) => {
  throw new Error('kaboom');
});

ee1.on('error', console.log);

const ee2 = new EventEmitter({ captureRejections: true });
ee2.on('something', async (value) => {
  throw new Error('kaboom');
});

ee2[Symbol.for('nodejs.rejection')] = console.log;
```

Setting `EventEmitter.captureRejections = true` will change the default for all
new instances of `EventEmitter`.

```js
EventEmitter.captureRejections = true;
const ee1 = new EventEmitter();
ee1.on('something', async (value) => {
  throw new Error('kaboom');
});

ee1.on('error', console.log);
```

The `'error'` events that are generated by the `captureRejections` behavior

> **do not have a catch handler** to avoid infinite error loops.

Reviewer 4: Given this, I strongly think we should either (a) tell people explicitly not to pass async functions to handle on('error') events or (b) throw if an AsyncFunction is passed as a handler to on('error') events.

Reviewer: the latter can't be detected, any function might return a rejected promise.

Author: Done, please check it out

All `EventEmitter`s emit the event `'newListener'` when new listeners are
added and `'removeListener'` when existing listeners are removed.

It supports the following option:

> * `autoCatch`, it can be `true` or `false`. It enables [automatic catch

Reviewer 5: this property only able on `async` function, why don't rename it to `asyncCatch`? 🤔

Reviewer: you could have a normal function that returns a promise

Reviewer 3: @devsnek arguably a normal function that returns a promise is an async function :P

All `EventEmitter`s emit the event `'newListener'` when new listeners are
added and `'removeListener'` when existing listeners are removed.

It supports the following option:

> * `captureRejections`, it can be `true` or `false`. It enables [automatic catch

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* `captureRejections` {boolean} It enables [automatic catch of promise rejection][autocatch].
  Default: `false`.
```

>   of promise rejection][autocatch].

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

Author: I don't understand this suggestion.

All `EventEmitter`s emit the event `'newListener'` when new listeners are
added and `'removeListener'` when existing listeners are removed.

It supports the following option:

* `captureRejections` {boolean} It enables

>   [automatic catch of promise rejection][autocatch].

Reviewer 3: autocatch here is probably wrong from before the rename :]

All `EventEmitter`s emit the event `'newListener'` when new listeners are
added and `'removeListener'` when existing listeners are removed.

It supports the following option:

* `captureRejections` {boolean} It enables

>   [automatic catch of promise rejection][capturerejections].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  [automatic capturing of promise rejection][capturerejections].
```

Maybe?

The `'removeListener'` event is emitted *after* the `listener` is removed.

### Event: 'rejection'
<!-- YAML
added: REPLACEME
-->

* `err` The error

> The `'rejection'` event is emitted if a promise rejection happens and

Reviewer 4: It may be helpful for the rejection event to include the name of the event that triggered it.

```js
ee.on('foo', async () => {})
ee.on('bar', async () => {})
ee.on('rejection', async () => {
  // Which one rejected?
})
```

Also, what happens if I provide an async handler to `'error'` or `'rejection'` and those reject? Will I end up with a loop?

A rejection in the rejection handler should always emit an error.

A rejection in the error handler should always cause an unhandledRejection or unhandledException

Author: This is fixed, please check!

Reviewer 4: How about the rejection call including the event that failed?

Author: > How about the rejection call including the event that failed?

This follows the same convention of `'error'`. I think we should keep consistency.

The `'removeListener'` event is emitted *after* the `listener` is removed.

### Event: Symbol.for('nodejs.rejection')
<!-- YAML
added: REPLACEME
-->

* `err` The error

The `Symbol.for('nodejs.rejection')` event is emitted if a promise

> rejection happens and [`captureRejections`][autocatch] is enabled on the emitter.

Reviewer 4: This should include an example.

emitter.emit('log');
```

### emitter\[Symbol.for('nodejs.rejection')\](err, eventName\[, ...args\])
<!-- YAML
added: REPLACEME
-->

> Stability: 1 - captureRejections is experimental.

* `err` Error
* `eventName` {string|symbol}
* `...args` {any}

The `Symbol.for('nodejs.rejection')` method is called in case a
promise rejection happens when emitting an event and
[`captureRejections`][capturerejections] is enabled on the emitter.
It is possible to use [`events.captureRejectionSymbol`][rejectionsymbol] in
place of `Symbol.for('nodejs.rejection')`.

```js
const { EventEmitter, captureRejectionSymbol } = require('events');

class MyClass extends EventEmitter {
  constructor() {
    super({ capturerejections: true });
  }

  [captureRejectionSymbol](err, event, ...args) {

>     console.log('rejection happened for', event, 'with', err, ...args);

Reviewer 6: Should this be here? Not sure when `console.log` is allowed/appropriate.

run();
```

## events.captureRejections
<!-- YAML
added: REPLACEME
-->

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Value: {boolean}
```
